.\" -*- nroff -*-
.ds g \" empty
.ds G \" empty
.\" Like TP, but if specified indent is more than half
.\" the current line-length - indent, use the default indent.
.de Tp
.ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.lu-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.el .TP "\\$1"
..
.TH KPKG 8 "October 2010" "Kwort Linux"
.SH NAME
kpkg \- Kwort package maintenance tool.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kpkg <options> [PACKAGE|FILE ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B kpkg
is Kworts package tool to manage packages.  
It can install packages from a single package file or from any mirror you choose. 
It has several options, including the basics, installing and removing, and more advanced features. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B update [DATABASES...]
This option updates a package database from all mirrors installed or from the mirror you chose from.

Example:

kpkg update 

kpkg update europa
.TP
.B install PACKAGE1 [PACKAGE2 ...]
This option allows you to install a package from a local place or from the chosen mirrors.

Examples:

kpkg install irssi

kpkg install wbar irssi

kpkg install /home/user/openoffice#2.0#i486#1.tar.xz

kpkg install /var/packages/downloads/xfmedia#0.9.1#i486#1.tar.gz /home/user/openoffice#2.0#i486#1.tar.xz 

.TP
.B remove PACKAGE1 [PACKAGE2 ...]
Use this option to remove installed packages.

Examples:

kpkg remove openoffice

kpkg remove xfmedia openoffice
.PP
ATTENTION: This option does not remove packages installed from source. Only packages installed with kpkg. 

.TP
.B download PACKAGE1 [PACKAGE2 ...]
With this option you download packages from the mirror but don't install them. The downloaded packages go to /var/packages/downloads

Examples:

kpkg download openoffice

kpkg download xfmedia openoffice

.TP
.B search
This option only search a package in the database, it doesn't install or remove any package. It doesn't modify the database at all. If you want to know all packages installed in the database simply run it without any parameters. You can combine this option with the LOCAL variable to list only installed packages (see below).

Examples:

kpkg search fire

kpkg search irssi

kpkg search

.TP
.B provides FILE
This option allows you to know which package installed by kpkg is providing a given file.

Examples:

kpkg provides ls

.TP
.B upgrade
This option upgrades the whole system or a given package name from the mirror's.

Examples:

kpkg upgrade

kpkg upgrade irssi

.TP
.B diff
This option show upgradeable packages in the system by querying mirror's databases.

Examples:

kpkg diff

.TP
.B instkdb [KDBFILE / URL TO KDBFILE]
Use this option to install a Kwort compatible kdb file. You can pass a kdb file or a web link so the database would be downloaded and saved it in the right place.

Examples:

kpkg instkdb europa.kdb

kpkg instkdb http://europa.fapyd.unr.edu.ar/pub/kwort/4.4/europa.kdb


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ROOT
This option is used to set a path to an installation. Leave it empty to install in the root (/). Accepted value is a full directory name. 

Examples:

ROOT=/home/nomius kpkg install openoffice

.PP
ATTENTION: Note that if you change this variable you might probably want to change also KPKG_DB_HOME, to point the installed packages database to $ROOT/var/packages/installed.kdb.
.TP
.B KPKG_DB_HOME
This option is used to set a path where the database is. You can work with this with several database using them completely separated. Leave it empty to use the default database path (/var/packages/installed.kdb).

Examples:

KPKG_DB_HOME=/home/nomius/installed.kdb kpkg install openoffice

.TP
.B CSV
Using the search command willl produce a human readable form list of installed packages, setting this variable to "yes" will make it look like a csv list. This option is useful for frontends where the output of kpkg must be piped to another program.

Examples:

CSV=yes kpkg search firefox

.TP
.B LOCAL
When searching packages, this variable will tell the package manager if the search context is the installed packages database or all mirror's database. Bear in mind that not using LOCAL on an empty search will return the whole list of installed and not installed packages making the output very long. You can combine this variable with CSV one also.

Examples:

LOCAL=1 kpkg search firefox
LOCAL=1 CSV=1 kpkg search

.TP
.B MIRROR
If you have a package on several mirrors and you don't want to be prompted when installing, you can set this variable the the mirror name. The mirror name is the name of the database without its extension.

Examples:

MIRROR=europa kpkg install irssi

.TP
.B NOREADME
Avoid showing install/README file and its prompt to continue. If install/README doesn't exists, this variable doesn't do anything

Examples:

NOREADME=1 kpkg install irssi

.TP
.B NO_DOWNLOAD_OUTPUT
Disables the download output (useful for scripting)

Examples:

NO_DOWNLOAD_OUTPUT=1 kpkg download irssi

.TP
.B SKIP
Skip failures which makes kpkg to abort if a package that is not installed is asked to be removed or if a package that is already installed is asked to be installed again.

Examples:

SKIP=1 kpkg install non-existent irssi

.TP
.B FORCE
If a package is already installed and install is given, this variable will force an upgrade.

Examples:

kpkg install irssi
FORCE=1 kpkg install irssi


.SH AUTHOR
David B. Cortarello <dcortarello@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR makepkg(8)
